New claw swarm destroys openclaw. So
there is a brand new AI tool called claw
swarm and it might just kill openclaw.
Not joking. This thing uses a swarm of
tiny AI agents that work together. And I
am going to break the whole thing down
for you right now because what I found
is actually insane. Okay, so here is the
deal. Everyone right now is building AI
agents. You've heard of them. Little AI
bots that can do stuff for you. Search
the web, write code, send messages, all
that good stuff. But here is the
problem. Most AI agent systems are big.
They are heavy. They are hard to set up
and they are slow. OpenClaw is one of
the big ones. It works, but it is like
driving a truck when you just need a
bicycle. You know what I mean? It gets
the job done, but there is so much extra
stuff you do not need. And that is where
Clawswarm comes in. This thing just
showed up publicly in February 2026. It
is brand new. And the whole idea behind
it is simple. Instead of one big AI
doing everything by itself, you get a
whole team of small AIs working together
like a swarm. That is literally why they
called it claw swarm. And the way it
works is so clean, it actually blew my
mind when I first looked at it. Let me
explain how it works. Picture this. You
send a message. That message goes to
what they call the director agent. Think
of the director like a boss. The boss
does not do the work. The boss looks at
your message and says, "Okay, here is
the plan." Then the boss sends tasks to
different worker agents. Each worker is
good at one thing. One worker handles
simple responses. Another worker handles
web searches. Another one writes code.
Another one does blockchain stuff. They
all do their thing at the same time.
Then all the results come back. A
summarizer agent takes everything and
puts it together into one clean answer.
And that answer goes back to you. So
instead of one AI trying to do 10
things, you have 10 AIs each doing one
thing really well all at the same time.
That is parallel problem solving. and it
is way faster than the old way. Now,
here is where it gets even crazier. Claw
Swarm has this thing called a unified
messaging gateway. And this is huge
because it means you can connect Claw
Swarm to Telegram, Discord, and WhatsApp
all through one system, one API, one
setup. So, if you want to build an AI
bot that runs on all three platforms,
you do not need three different setups.
You just plug into Claw Swarm once and
you are good. The gateway takes messages
from any platform and turns them into
one standard format. The agents process
it and the answer goes back to whatever
platform the user is on. That is clean,
that is simple and that is something a
lot of people have been waiting for.
Hey, if we have not met already, I am
the digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO
of SEO agency Goldie Agency. Whilst he
is helping clients get more leads and
customers, I'm here to help you get the
latest AI updates. Julian Goldie reads
every comment, so make sure you comment
below. Okay, so let me keep going
because there is more. Claw Swarm can
also use Claude as a reasoning tool
inside its agents. So picture this. A
worker gets a coding task. That worker
calls Claude. Claude writes the code.
The worker takes that code and sends it
back. So you are not stuck with one AI
model. You can mix and match, use
different models for different tasks.
That is what they call a hybrid AI
system. And it makes the whole thing way
more flexible. Now, let me talk about
speed because this matters. Parts of the
swarm's ecosystem are written in Rust.
If you do not know what Rust is, just
know it is a programming language that
is crazy fast. Like really, really fast.
Most AI agent systems are built in
Python. Python is great, but it is slow
compared to Rust. So, clawwarm has the
potential to be way faster than anything
else out there right now. Right? We are
talking high performance, memory safety,
and fast concurrency. That is a big deal
when you are running multiple agents at
the same time. And here is something
else that makes this different from a
random side project on GitHub. Clawwarm
is built for real use, not just
experiments. It has Docker support. It
has environment configs. It has gRPC
messaging. It runs 24/7 agent loops. It
has health checks. It has TLS security.
This is production level stuff. You can
actually deploy this and use it for real
work, real automation, real businesses.
Now I want to talk about why people are
comparing this to openclaw. And look I
am not here to say one is bad and one is
good but the comparison makes sense.
Open claw is a full ecosystem. It is
powerful but it is heavy. Claw swarm
takes that same vision of multiple
agents working together but strips it
down makes it lighter makes it simpler
makes it easier to deploy. If Open Claw
is a full kitchen renovation, Claw Swarm
is like one of those perfect little food
trucks that serves amazing food with
half the setup. Now, if you are loving
this breakdown and you want to learn how
to actually use AI tools like Claw Swarm
to automate your workflows and scale
your business, you need to check out the
AI profit boardroom. It is the best
place to learn how to use cutting edge
AI agent systems and swarm tools to get
more customers and save hundreds of
hours with AI automation. link is in the
description and comments. Seriously, go
check it out. Okay, so let me talk about
the bigger picture here because Claw
Swarm is not just a tool. It is part of
a bigger movement. The Swarm's ecosystem
is trying to build an entire
infrastructure layer for AI agents. The
goal is wild. They want millions or even
billions of agents collaborating to
perform tasks on their own. No humans
needed. They call it the agent. And
whether you think that is exciting or
terrifying is coming. Think about it
like this. Right now, most people use AI
like a tool. You type something. AI
gives you an answer. One in, one out.
But the future is not one super smart
AI. The future is thousands of smaller
AIs working together like a hive mind.
Each one doing its own thing. Each one
specialized. And together they solve
problems that one AI never could on its
own. That is the swarm model. And claw
swarm is one of the first real
lightweight tools that lets regular
people tap into that. So, let me recap
why this matters. One, claw swarm is
simpler than openclaw, way less
complexity. Two, it is multi- aent by
default. You get a whole team of AIS out
of the box. Three, it has a unified
messaging gateway for Telegram, Discord,
and WhatsApp. Four, it can use Claude
and other models together. Five, parts
of it run on Rust, so it is fast. Six,
it is built for real production use with
Docker and security and all that. Seven,
it just dropped and it fits perfectly
with where AI is heading right now. If
you are building bots, automating tasks,
or just trying to stay ahead of the AI
curve, you need to know about class one.
This is not some toy project. This is
the start of something big. Now, here is
what I want you to do. Go look at the
claw swarm repo, read through the
architecture, try it out, play with it,
because this stuff moves fast, and the
people who actually get their hands
dirty with these tools are the ones who
win. And if you want to go deeper and
learn how to use Swarm AI tools like
Claw Swarm to automate your workflows,
get more customers and stay ahead of the
curve, you need to join the AI profit
boardroom. We are breaking down tools
like Claw Swarm every single week. We
show you exactly how to set them up,
exactly how to use them and exactly how
to plug them into your business so you
actually get results. Not just theory,
real step-by-step walkthroughs. The link
is in the description and comments
below. Go check it out right now while
it is on your mind. And one more thing
before you go. If you want the full
process, the SOPs and over a 100 AI use
cases just like this one, join the AI
Success Lab is our free AI community.
You will get all the video notes from
every single video I put out. Plus, you
get access to our community of 38,000
members who are already crushing it with
AI. These are people just like you who
are using these tools every day and
sharing what works. It is free. There is
no catch. Just a bunch of people helping
each other get better with AI. Links are
in the comments and description.